--- 
author: jeremy-kauffman
title: 'Down to F*&%@# February'
date: '2020-02-05 12:00:00'
cover: 'https://spee.ch/6/5M-lbc.png'
---

## Five million LBC for fifty thousand people, because February is a month for people who like to F…

...ollow their favorite creators and be free on LBRY.

We’re following up the lbry.tv launch finally firing with Down to Follow February.

Down to Follow February will:

1. Funnel up to five million LBC to creators, existing users, and new users.
2. Feature something fantastic for creators and fans each week this month.

## Down to Follow Announcement Video

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://lbry.tv/$/embed/DTF-Feb/ebb024d2976eeb2c30b50dc0c8380deb4eac64ca" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Down to Follow February Specifics

The program has three parts.

### 15 LBC for Everyone

If five hundred thousand new follows happen and fifty thousand new users join LBRY in February, **everyone who participates* in DTF February gets 15 LBC**.

Participation is defined as: inviting a user, making a video about LBRY, or joining LBRY this month as a new user and following five creators.

This is an ambitious but easily achievable goal. Have you told a friend or favorite creator about LBRY yet?

### 50,000 LBC for 5 Creators

**The number one way LBRY grows is by creators talking about it.** 

Whether you’re a LBRY-exclusive creator or you post your content elsewhere, we’re asking you to encourage your audience to check you out and follow you on LBRY this month. That can be either by making a video about LBRY specifically, or mentioning LBRY in your other videos or other communications.

50,000 LBC will be given to:

- The three creators that resulted in the most new users, as measured by invite and referral tracking.
- The creator who makes a video about LBRY with the most views on YouTube.
- The creator who makes a video about LBRY with the most views on Bitchute.

We’ll also be giving rewards and tips to any creator who makes a good-faith effort to do this. You can make sure we see it by tagging us on Twitter, applying the #dtflbry tag to your video on LBRY, YouTube, or BitChute, or emailing us at [hello@lbry.com](mailto:hello@lbry.com).

Please make sure to link to your invite page so you receive the 20 bonus LBC immediately after someone joins. If a new user does not visit your invite page, channel page, or a video of yours first, they become difficult to attribute.

*Note that unlike invite bonuses, creator rewards will be granted even if we do not hit the overall goal.*

### Invite Bonuses

If we hit our overall targets of five hundred thousand follows and fifty thousand new users, we’ll be granting some extra bonuses as the end of the month for invites:

- 30 extra LBC for new users that follow five creators and visit five times (55 instead of 25).
- 20 extra LBC per user invited that does the above (45 instead of 25)

These bonuses will be awarded in a single reward in early March.

## Down to Follow February Schedule

### Week 1: Goals

This first week is about setting and communicating goals. In addition to announcing and pushing out DTF February, **we’ll be releasing our 2020 roadmap and our 2019 goals report card**.

### Week 2: Following and Reposts

The second week we’ll be releasing features to facilitate more following (and a better experience in general). This will primarily be from two features:

1. **Reposts.** Creators will be able to repost other creators, facilitating discovery across channels from creators that want to support each other and share great content made by others.
2. **Revamped following.** We will be updating the features around finding new channels and especially for new users, who will go through an explicit step to encourage this.

### Week 3: Privacy and Education

We want to make sure **everyone understands how their data is stored, when it is shared with others, and how to not share data you want private or inaccessible** to third parties. 

In addition to some new features and changes here, we’ll be reaching out to privacy-oriented creators and communities.

Are you a creator that cares about privacy, or a member of a community group that does? Please let us know!

### Week 4: ???

This one would be spoiled if we announced it today, but it’s as big or bigger than all the others.

## The Bottom Summary for the Scroll Bar Junkies and/or Goldfish

- Down to Follow February is a campaign to get 500,000 new follows and 50,000 new users on LBRY in February.
- Up to 5 million LBC if we come together to hit goals. Participate by inviting someone or making a video.
- Big rewards for creators who mention LBRY or make videos about LBRY. Big high fives, too.
- A feature each week this month:
    - DTF February and 2020 Roadmap
    - Reposts and revamped following
    - Privacy and education
    - Top-secret mystery
